Lists are useful in programming because they allow us to store multiple related pieces of information together. Instead of creating a separate variable for every item, a list can hold an entire collection and make it easier to organize, access, and modify the information.

Three Real-Life Scenarios

My Movie Collection
A list would be useful for keeping track of movies I've digitized to my personal library (darfcloud). Each movie includes information such as its title, release year, genre, and rating. A list would make it easy to keep everything organized and I need to add ratings to determine if the kids can watch.  

Family Photos
A list could be used to organize information about my family photos. Each item could contain details such as the file name, date the photo was taken, location, and the family members pictured. From class I want to learn about CV models I can run on a local machine since my wife is paranoid about facial recognition on the net.

My Wife's Book Collection
A list is also a good way to store information about my wife's book collection. Each book can be represented by a dictionary containing information such as the ISBN, title, author, publisher, publication year, and language. I wrote a script that scrapped OpenLibrary for her collection during COVID but the code rotted since I had to go back to work.

This is the one I'll do a Python code example for. For the book collection, I would use a list containing dictionaries. Each dictionary represents one book and stores several pieces of information about that book. These are just the first three random ones in my database.
I chose a list of dictionaries because the books are all related, but each book also has multiple pieces of information associated with it. The list allows me to store all of the books together, while each dictionary allows me to describe the individual book using labels such as "title", "author", and "publication_year". It's also simple to dump in a SQL database. There's better databases today but I started the project a decade ago.
Should I take the time to upgrade everything to a modern database?
